feat(3033): add user guide for pipeline stages (#590)
screwdriver-cd/screwdriver-cd.github.io: docs/user-guide/configuration/stages.md

---
layout: main
title: Stages
category: User Guide
menu: menu
toc:

>   - title: Example
>     url: "#example"
>   - title: Setup and Teardown
>     url: "#setup-and-teardown"
>   - title: Limitations
>     url: "#limitations"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - title: Stages
    url: "#stages"
  - title: Example
    url: "#example"
    subitem: true
  - title: Setup and Teardown
    url: "#setup-and-teardown"
    subitem: true
  - title: Limitations
    url: "#limitations"
    subitem: true
```

---

> # Pipeline Stages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Stages
```

> The configuration of stages is employed to categorize one or more jobs that execute steps to achieve a similar objective. For instance, jobs such as `ci-deploy`, `ci-test`, and `ci-certify` can be grouped together under a stage named integration.

Reviewer: Just a suggestion. Nothing really wrong with what you're saying, but I think a simpler use of language could be easier to read for users (and a little more consistent with what we already have). 

```suggestion
Stages can be used to categorize one or more jobs that have steps with similar objectives. For instance, jobs `ci-deploy`, `ci-test`, and `ci-certify` can be grouped together under a stage named `integration`.
```

#### Example

```
jobs:
  ci-deploy:
    requires: []
  ci-test:
    requires: [ci-deploy]
  ci-certify:
    requires: [ci-test]
  triggered-by-stage:
    requires: [~stage@integration]

stages:
  integration:
    requires: [~commit]
    jobs: [ci-deploy, ci-test, ci-certify]
    description: "This stage will deploy the latest application to the CI environment and certify it after the tests have passed."
```

> <br>In the provided example, the `ci-deploy` job within the `integration` stage has an empty `requires` field, indicating that the job begins execution immediately upon stage activation, as demonstrated by the `commit` trigger. Conversely, the `triggered-by-stage` job, which is triggered by the integration stage, starts only after the completion of the last job or jobs within the stage.
> 
> <br>Based on the configuration, the screenshot below illustrates the expected layout of the workflow graph.

Reviewer: Some wording tweaks. Removed `<br>`, I don't think we need that. And added a sentence explicitly calling out the expected stage trigger syntax.

```suggestion
In the provided example, the `ci-deploy` job within the `integration` stage has an empty `requires` field, indicating that the job begins execution immediately upon stage activation, as demonstrated by the `commit` trigger. Conversely, the `triggered-by-stage` job, which is triggered by the `integration` stage, starts only after the completion of the last job or jobs within the stage. To configure a job that is triggered by the end of a stage, use the syntax `~stage@stageName`.

Based on the configuration, the screenshot below illustrates the expected layout of the workflow graph.
```

![Basic Stages Graph](assets/pipeline_stages_basic.png)

#### Setup and Teardown

> <br>Each stage can equipped with a **setup** job, which executes prior to any other jobs in the configuration, and a **teardown** job, which runs after all other jobs have finished. Users have the option to define custom setup and teardown jobs, as shown in the configuration below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<br>Each stage can be equipped with a **setup** job, which executes prior to any other jobs in the configuration, and a **teardown** job, which runs all other jobs have finished. Users have the option to define custom setup and teardown jobs, as shown in the configuration below.
```

Reviewer 2: We also need to mention that `teardown` will be executed as the final step with in the stage even when there is a failure while executing any of the jobs.

```
stages:
  integration:
    requires: [~commit]
    jobs: [ci-deploy, ci-test, ci-certify]
    description: "This stage will deploy the latest application to the CI environment and certify it after the tests have passed."
    setup:
      image: node:18
      steps:
        - init: echo 'integration setup'
    teardown:
      image: node:18
      steps:

>         - init: echo 'integration teardown'

Reviewer: Might be better to have a more meaningful example for what might be run in setup/teardown jobs.

```

> <br>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> #### Limitations

Reviewer: Small suggestion, but not blocking. Just the more commonly used term in the guide.

```suggestion
#### Caveats
```

> - Within the supported [SCM events](./workflow#workflow), only the `~commit` workflow is implemented.

Reviewer 2: Should we instead say `~pr` is not supported?

Reviewer: Would prefer Sagar's suggestion, but I don't have a strong opinion. 

Can we also mention that a job can only belong to one stage?
